given where we are given what's
happening and maybe you've already said
this uh you've already answered this
somehow but given Where We Are
from the perspective of the deep
psychedelic work that you've done
you know
what does it mean to be a good person
right now what is it what does it mean
to be
um
how what does it take
you know yeah
man
that's a large question
foreign
ways to answer that question pop into my
mind and all of them are wrong
so I'm kind of sifting through layers
[Applause]
yeah
in some of my deepest experiences there
are moments there are times when
and even after a session
but under the influence of the learning
of a session
when something just
Falls away something opens
and I I experience the world
truly us living and breathing as one
I feel like my feet are rooted in the
Earth the way a tree is rooted in the
earth I look down at the grass and I
Feel Complete continuity of being
between everything around me and my own
being I feel it's breathing the same air
I feel us all different species sharing
the same moment in time I feel the pulse
of the universe
in its utter simplicity
not paying attention to any of our
divisions of species or moods or
incarnations or anything like that the
entire universe
just being itself
and I am part of that
in grateful it's not even communion
because communion implies a subtle
Duality and this is when all of that
falls away and a great
transparency of being opens
from within that position
I experience an opening of my mind
kind of a delicious
sense of presence
it gives me an intimacy with grass
and then at a deeper level I experienced
an opening of my heart in which
the idea of harming anyone is the
farthest thing from my mind
and the idea of helping everyone
is the most natural thing in the world
it's it's not being good
it just
it's
it's being alive within this reality of
Oneness
so to me
goodness
is simply an approximation or it's a
it's a
it's a compass needle that points in the
direction
of
this fundamental truth
of Oneness
and the truth of Oneness is all these
derivatives that flow from it in
circumstances but at Essence it's very
very simple
and I think compassion goodness in that
way fairness Justice
for all aspects of Oneness are all kind
of fractal manifestations of Oneness
so
what does it take to be a good person
today
I think it takes
a willingness a commitment to serving a
collective good
to serving a good that's not private it
opens up
to Future Generations that opens up to
people who are unlike me and species who
are unlike me just an honest
confrontation with what is
in order to bring about a better life
for other beings I know this is very
simple
um
but to me goodness is is is simple it is
is that simple
it gets complicated in the enacting of
it but in the at its core
it
it's an action that comes out of Oneness
and if it's not coming out of a deep
grounding in Oneness
then maybe there's something not to
trust in it
Because deep goodness comes out of
Oneness I think
now I don't know if this really
addresses the depth out of which your
question is coming because I I
understand
the true
the true angst not angst but the true
kind of quandary
from which that question comes
but the deepest answer I have in
response to it I'm afraid is just a
mystical experience a mystical
experience of Oneness in which that
context goodness just becomes an
insignificant
component to spontaneous component
just like the way you react when you see
something beautiful it's just it's a
rising it comes up inside of you
goodness is simply an arising that comes
up inside of you when you're in the
condition of Oneness
I have a I have a
maybe a more sort of serious response
and have a more joking response and a
more serious response is is something
along the lines of um
like what
what does it
what does it look like to
[Music]
um
what does the dance look like you said
it becomes difficult in the enactment
you know
um what does the dance look like between
okay
having that experience because I've had
that experience and I can tell you fully
100 honestly that
anywhere from
ten percent of the time to 99 of the
time I'm not there at all there's no
sense of it whatsoever in my experience
you know and I I am and I'm not in the
ground of that as I'm as I'm as I'm
showing up in the world and I'm
wondering yeah
you know in the same way that also the
playful response was so we all should
all take 500 mics of LSD right um but no
no in the what does it look like to have
had that experience because the way that
you speak about it and I think naturally
it makes sense like when you're there
goodness just flows from you right it is
the most organic and natural expression
of being in the world is when you're
coming from that place and yet
having a deep and profound experience
doesn't make you a deep and profound
person
experiencing Oneness doesn't mean that
you now walk through the world inspired
and Infused in all your actions you know
Oneness just streams from your
fingertips and every interaction is a
blessing with the world from the depth
of the Oneness that I have embodied
simply by taking enough mushrooms to
touch at once so yeah what does it look
like then I mean maybe this is a
question around integration yeah you
know what does it mean to remember that
and what does it mean to
um to catch ourselves in forgetting
yeah Ah that's that is uh you know we we
go up on the mountain we see some things
we may be given some blessings and then
we come down and then we have to go to
work on Monday morning
and for that's over and over again it
means a matter of constantly
uh engaging
being aware of how you're engaging
checking yourself
recommitting yourself to doing a better
job over and over and over again for me
much of it was in my work as a teacher
you know constantly
always enjoying it always loving to be
with the students
always wanting to do it better but
constantly catching myself making
assumptions making false inferences not
doing a good enough job being a little
tired
letting my students down on a particular
day coming back and trying to do better
coming do better the next day the better
the next week better the next semester
over and over again trying to live up to
the things that we know to be true
integration is a is a strange term I'm
not sure
I'm glad that the Psychedelic Community
is paying more attention to integration
because it's really really critical
but and there are dimensions and aspects
of integration and the word integrate
carries us a certain distances and
doesn't carry us so far but it's
it's hard to live our Visions it's hard
to live the truth of what we've seen it
because it commits you to constantly
being aware if you take the time to
remember to pay attention to yourself
how bad a job we're doing
living those truths but that's just
that's the nature of the Beast though uh
we just it's constantly I mean
if we are if we live around people
who are really good people who really
have a deeper natural instinct
for goodness and kindness and generosity
than we have
then it makes it easier to to sort of
face our own shortcomings
because we have someone that we can look
at and say ah that person's doing this
better than I do so this gives me a
measuring stick I can do better I'll
I'll do it better tomorrow I'll keep
working on it
and that's why you know in the Buddhist
tradition spiritual friends people who
are also
have committed themselves to Awakening
that's really one of the great uh Sangha
Community is one of the great pillars of
progress
so
yeah you're right it's wonderful to have
the experience but we don't walk around
in that state but we practice and
practice and practice and then maybe 10
years later we were in a little bit more
10 years later maybe we're in it a
little bit more but uh practice and
practice and practice and if we ever
think that we're really there then all
we have to do is ask our young children
and they'll remind us that we're not
really there as far along as we think we
are our our kids will set us straight
there or perhaps or perhaps we could I
think it was a baba ramdas said if you
ever think you're spiritually awakened
go spend a week at your parents or
something like that someone who's the
other way around
um yes yes
[Music]
foreign